Review checklist (#13553)
ethereum/solidity: ReviewChecklist.md

It's also meant as a final checklist for reviewers to go through before approving a PR.

## Before you submit a PR
- [ ] **Is the issue ready to be worked on?**
    - If the issue does not have a desirability label (`nice to have`, `should have`,
        `must have eventually`, `must have`, `roadmap`) we still have not decided whether to implement it.
    - If the issue `needs design`, we have not yet decided how it should be implemented.
    - `good first issue candidate` means that the issue will potentially be a `good first issue`
        eventually but at the moment it's not yet ready to be worked on.
- [ ] **Is this a breaking change?** Breaking changes should be based on the `breaking` branch rather than on `develop`.
- [ ] **Does the PR actually address the issue?**
    - [ ] Mention the issue number in the PR description.
        If the PR solves it completely, use the `Fixes #<issue number>` form so that Github will close the issue automatically
    - [ ] Do not include issue number in the PR title, branch name or commit description.
- [ ] When submitting a PR from a fork **create a branch and give it a good name.**
    E.g. `fix-array-abi-encoding-bug`.

>     Avoid submitting PRs directly from the `develop` branch of a fork since it makes rebasing and fetching new changes harder.

Reviewer: I think we should even go a step further and forbid this; i.e. if we see that an external contributor is trying to merge fork:develop into solidity:develop, to simply close it and request for changes to be in a separate branch. The phrasing here is kind of ambiguous - `Avoid submitting PRs...` - what does that even mean? Don't do it except in such and such cases, or is it just a nice way of saying 'don't do it'?

Author: I said "avoid", because technically you can do that. You just have to remember to then do `git push <fork> <your branch>:develop` when pushing and fetching changes to `develop` is a bit awkward. But you have a point. Someone who knows that, does not really need this advice. I made it stronger.

This first section is generally meant to be read before you submit the PR so you should just not do it :) Of course many people will only learn about it from us when we point them at the checklist and it's too late. I still wouldn't just close the PR. Maybe if the submitter has problems with it but usually those PRs are still salvageable and I merged them on many occasions. I don't like that you then just get `develop` and fork name in the merge commit description but that's just cosmetics.

- [ ] **Does the PR depend on other PRs?**
    - [ ] If the PR has dependencies, mention them in bold in the description.
    - [ ] Avoid basing PRs from forks on branches other than `develop` or `breaking` because
        unfortunately gitub closes them when the base branch gets merged.
        Do this only for PRs created directly in the main repo.

## Style and good practices

> - [ ] Does the PR follow our [coding style](CODING_STYLE.md)?

Reviewer: I kinda wish we weren't so stubborn regarding closing parentheses alignment and could just automate this with `clang-format` and `clang-tidy`. If not, at least the `check_style.sh` script could be extended to cover more cases.

Author: I mean, Rust got it right with `cargo fmt`, why can't clang? It's not like it's some weird, unusual style.

In any case, we did decide to give `clang-format` another go so hopefully it's just a matter of time. For the time being it's still manual though so we need this point.

Also, the coding style doc also contains some general guidelines that cannot be enforced by the formatter. I expect that like half of it will still stay. Ideally we'd be able to point at some popular guide like [C++ Core Guidelines](https://github.com/isocpp/CppCoreGuidelines/blob/master/CppCoreGuidelines.md) but I think that we are a bit more opinionated about some choices :)

Reviewer: The main issue is that `clang-format` is incredibly biased toward pre defined styles, e.g. `LLVM`, `Google`, `Microsoft`, which offer a lot of the formatting we want, but don't expose it as separate commands that would allow us to just select a `None` style, and then define whatever we want. The fact that Rust got it right doesn't change the fact that we've implemented the compiler in C++, and are therefore stuck with what we have. Personally, I try to adapt to whatever style the code base is written in, and don't have hard opinions one way or another, but I do think it would be significantly more efficient to just choose the lesser evil, and accept the fact that some things that `clang-format` forces won't be to our liking, as long it actually helps the review process by automating the style checks fully. In any case, this was a bit of a digression, and even more of a rant, so not particularly relevant to this PR.

Author: I don't know. To be honest I'm ambivalent about code formatters. Nice to have but I'm used to formatting in a readable way manually and I never saw them as something essential. Even in reviews it's also a pretty insignificant fraction of time spent (even if it's the most visible because it accounts for the largest portion of comments). That's why I always opted for readable style, not the most popular one and I'm fully on board with the style we have here. Wake me up when you invent an automatic renamer and commenter so that I can understand the code instantly without multiple takes and jumping all over :P

### Reliability
- [ ] **Use assertions liberally.** If you are certain your assumption will not be be broken, prove it with `solAssert()`.
- [ ] **Validate inputs and handle errors**. Note that assertions are **not** validation.

### Readability
- [ ] **Choose good names.**
    - [ ] Is the name straightforward to understand?
        Do you feel the need to jump back to the definition and remind yourself what it was whenever you see it?

>     - [ ] Is the name unambiguous in context where it's used?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [ ] Is the name unambiguous in the context where it's used?
```

Author: Fixed.

    Do not mix it with another change that renames things or reformats the code around, making the fix itself hard to identify.
- [ ] **Whenever possible, split off refactors or unrelated changes into separate PRs.**
    Smaller PRs are easier and quicker to review.
    Splitting off refactors helps focus on the main point of the PR.

### Common pitfalls
These are covered by the coding style but come up so often that it's worth singling them out here:
- [ ] **Always initialize value types in the definition,** even if you're sure you will assign them later.
- [ ] **Use "east const" style.** I.e.. `T const*`, not `const T *`.
- [ ] **Indentation**. See our [`.editorconfig`](.editorconfig)).
    - [ ] Tabs for C++. Use tabs for indentation only any whitespace later on the line must be spaces.
    - [ ] 4 spaces for most other file types.
- [ ] **Use `auto` sparingly.** Only when the actual type is very long and complicated or when it's
    already used elsewhere in the same expression.
- [ ] **Indent braces and parentheses in a way that makes nesting clear.**
- [ ] **Use `using namespace` only in `.cpp` files.** Use it for `std` and our own modules.

>     Avoid unnecessary `std::` prefix in `.cpp` files (except for very common names like `std::move`).

Reviewer: Eh, using just `move` will cause `check_style` to fail anyway.

Author: True. Do you suggest removing this mention?

I included it because it's still an important exception to the rule. Actually, did we even add the rule to `CODING_STYLE`?

Reviewer: >True. Do you suggest removing this mention?

Not necessarily; I think adding a mention that using `move` without the `std::` qualifier will fail the check style job.

>I included it because it's still an important exception to the rule. Actually, did we even add the rule to CODING_STYLE?

I believe I did not  :smile:

Author: > I think adding a mention that using move without the std:: qualifier will fail the check style job.

But the submitter will easily discover that from the failing style check :) On the other hand the fact that `std::move` is an exception is not obvious.

Reviewer: Yeah, I'll add it to codestyle docs.

- [ ] **Don't include version pragma and the SPDX comment in semantic and syntax test cases**.
    In other test types include them if necessary to suppress warnings.
- [ ] **If you have to use a version pragma, avoid hard-coding version.** Use `pragma solidity *`.
- [ ] **Add `--pretty-print --pretty-json 4` to the `args` file of in command-line tests** to get
    readable, indented output.
- [ ] **When writing StandardJSON command-line tests, use `urls` instead of `content`** and put
    the Solidity or Yul code in a separate file.

### Compiler core
- [ ] **Are error messages sensible and understandable to users?**
- [ ] **Are error codes consistent?**
    - [ ] Avoid randomly changing or reassigning error codes.
    - [ ] Avoid defining separate codes for trivial variants of the same issue.
        Make it easy for tools to consistently refer to the same error with the same code.
- [ ] **Prefer Ranges v3 to Boost where possible.**
- [ ] **Error messages should end with a full stop.**

## Final checks before merging
- [ ] **Is the PR rebased on top of the `develop` branch** (or `breaking` if it's a breaking change)?

> - [ ] **Did all CI checks pass?**

Reviewer: I think it's worth mentioning that external tests may fail from time to time, and that most of them are not required steps for merging.

Author: Done.

common issues before they are inevitably pointed out in the review.
It's also meant as a final checklist for reviewers to go through before approving a PR.

## Before you submit a PR
- [ ] **Is the issue ready to be worked on?**
    - If the issue does not have a desirability label (`nice to have`, `should have`,
        `must have eventually`, `must have`, `roadmap`) we still have not decided whether to implement it.
    - If the issue `needs design`, we have not yet decided how it should be implemented.
    - `good first issue candidate` means that the issue will potentially be a `good first issue`
        eventually but at the moment it's not yet ready to be worked on.
- [ ] **Is this a breaking change?** Breaking changes should be based on the `breaking` branch rather than on `develop`.
- [ ] **Does the PR actually address the issue?**
    - [ ] Mention the issue number in the PR description.
        If the PR solves it completely, use the `Fixes #<issue number>` form so that Github will close the issue automatically
    - [ ] Do not include issue number in the PR title, branch name or commit description.

> - [ ] When submitting a PR from a fork **create a branch and give it a good name.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] When submitting a PR from a fork **create a branch and give it a relevant name.**
```

Author: Changed.

    E.g. `fix-array-abi-encoding-bug`.
    Do not submit PRs directly from the `develop` branch of a fork since it makes rebasing and fetching new changes harder.
- [ ] **Does the PR depend on other PRs?**
    - [ ] If the PR has dependencies, mention them in bold in the description.
    - [ ] Avoid basing PRs from forks on branches other than `develop` or `breaking` because

>         unfortunately gitub closes them when the base branch gets merged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        gitub closes them when the base branch gets merged.
```

Author: Changed.

>         unfortunately gitub closes them when the base branch gets merged.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        unfortunately Github closes them when the base branch gets merged.
```

Author: Fixed.

        Do this only for PRs created directly in the main repo.

## Coding style and good practices
- [ ] Does the PR follow our [coding style](CODING_STYLE.md)?

### Reliability

> - [ ] **Use assertions liberally.** If you are certain your assumption will not be be broken, prove it with `solAssert()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Use asserts liberally.** If your solution assumes that a certain assertion will not be be violated, add a safeguard using `solAssert()`.
```

Author: I actually like the original wording more. I could go in depth on when assertions are appropriate but that would be long. I think the current wording conveys most of that in a tongue-in-cheek way :)

    - [ ] Tabs for C++. But use them for indentation only. Any whitespace later on the line must be spaces.
    - [ ] 4 spaces for most other file types.
- [ ] **Use `auto` sparingly.** Only when the actual type is very long and complicated or when it's
    already used elsewhere in the same expression.
- [ ] **Indent braces and parentheses in a way that makes nesting clear.**
- [ ] **Use `using namespace` only in `.cpp` files.** Use it for `std` and our own modules.
    Avoid unnecessary `std::` prefix in `.cpp` files (except for very common names like `std::move`).
- [ ] **Use range-based loops and destructuring.**
- [ ] **Include any headers you use directly,** even if they're implicitly included through other headers.

## Documentation
- [ ] **Does the PR update relevant documentation?**

### Documentation style and good practices
- [ ] **Use double backticks in RST (``` ``x`` ```). Prefer single backticks in Markdown (`` `x` ``),**
    but note that double backticks are valid too and we use them in some cases for legacy reasons.
- [ ] **Always start a new sentence on a new line.**
    This way you don't have to rewrap the surrounding text when you rewrite the sentence.

>     This also makes parts that were actually easier to spot in the diff.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This makes changes actually easier to spot in the diff.
```

Author: Oh, not sure what happened here :P Fixed.

## Testing

### What to test
- [ ] **Is newly added code adequately covered by tests?**
    - [ ] **Is the (cleaned up) repro from the issue included as a test case?**
    - [ ] If it's a bugfix: **Do tests cover not just the bug repro but also related cases that might be affected by a similar bug?**

> - [ ] **Positive cases should have a semantic test.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Positive cases ( i.e. code behaving as per expectations ) should have a semantic test.**
```

> - [ ] **Negative cases should have a syntax test.**

Reviewer 2: '''
- [ ] **Positive cases ( i.e. code behaving as per expectations ) should have a semantic test.**
- [ ] **Negative cases (i.e. code that results in errors ) should have a syntax test.**
```

> - [ ] **Positive cases should have a semantic test.**
> - [ ] **Negative cases should have a syntax test.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Positive cases ( i.e. code behaving as per expectations ) should have a semantic test.**
- [ ] **Negative cases (i.e. code that results in errors ) should have a syntax test.**
```

Author: Added but with a slightly different wording. Error messages are expectations too so a passing case always behaves according to expectations :)

> - [ ] **Avoid mixing positive and negative cases in the same syntax test.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Avoid mixing positive and negative cases in the same test.**
```

> # PR review checklist

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# PR Review Checklist
```

> The Solidity compiler is a critical piece of infrastructure in the Ethereum ecosystem and for this

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Solidity compiler is a critical piece of infrastructure in the Ethereum ecosystem.
```

> reason our review process is quite strict.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For this reason, our review process is quite strict and all PRs have to fulfil certain quality expectations and guidelines.
```

The list below is meant to reduce the workload on the core team by helping contributors self-identify

> common issues before they are inevitably pointed out in the review.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and solve common issues before they are pointed out in the review.
```

> It's also meant as a final checklist for reviewers to go through before approving a PR.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It is also meant to serve as a final checklist for reviewers to go through before approving a PR.
```

Author: Ok, removing all contractions.

> ## Before you submit a PR

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Before You Submit a PR
```

- [ ] **Is the issue ready to be worked on?**
    - If the issue does not have a desirability label (`nice to have`, `should have`,

>         `must have eventually`, `must have`, `roadmap`) we still have not decided whether to implement it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        `must have eventually`, `must have`, `roadmap`) we have not decided whether to implement it yet.
```

>     - If the issue `needs design`, we have not yet decided how it should be implemented.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - If the issue has the `needs design` label, we have not yet decided how it should be implemented.
```

    - `good first issue candidate` means that the issue will potentially be a `good first issue`

>         eventually but at the moment it's not yet ready to be worked on.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        eventually but at the moment it is not yet ready to be worked on.
```

> - [ ] **Is this a breaking change?** Breaking changes should be based on the `breaking` branch rather than on `develop`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Is this a breaking change?** Breaking changes should be based on the `breaking` branch rather than on the `develop` branch.
```

- [ ] **Does the PR actually address the issue?**
    - [ ] Mention the issue number in the PR description.

>         If the PR solves it completely, use the `Fixes #<issue number>` form so that Github will close the issue automatically

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        If the PR solves it completely, use the `Fixes #<issue number>` form so that Github will close the issue automatically.
```

>     - [ ] Do not include issue number in the PR title, branch name or commit description.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - [ ] Do not include the issue number in the PR title, branch name or commit description.
```

> - [ ] When submitting a PR from a fork **create a branch and give it a relevant name.**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [ ] When submitting a PR from a fork **create a branch and give it a relevant descriptive name.**
```

    E.g. `fix-array-abi-encoding-bug`.
    Do not submit PRs directly from the `develop` branch of a fork since it makes rebasing and fetching new changes harder.
- [ ] **Does the PR depend on other PRs?**
    - [ ] If the PR has dependencies, mention them in bold in the description.
    - [ ] Avoid basing PRs from forks on branches other than `develop` or `breaking` because
        GitHub closes them when the base branch gets merged.
        Do this only for PRs created directly in the main repo.

> ## Coding style and good practices

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Coding Style and Good Practices
```

- [ ] Does the PR follow our [coding style](CODING_STYLE.md)?

### Reliability
- [ ] **Use assertions liberally.** If you are certain your assumption will not be be broken, prove it with `solAssert()`.
- [ ] **Validate inputs and handle errors**. Note that assertions are **not** validation.

### Readability
- [ ] **Choose good names.**
    - [ ] Is the name straightforward to understand?
        Do you feel the need to jump back to the definition and remind yourself what it was whenever you see it?

>     - [ ] Is the name unambiguous in the context where it's used?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - [ ] Is the name unambiguous in the context where it is used?
```

    - [ ] Avoid abbreviations.
- [ ] **Source files, classes and public functions should have docstrings.**
- [ ] **Avoid code duplication.** But not fanatically. Minimal amounts of duplication are acceptable if it aids readability.
- [ ] **Don't leave dead or commented-out code behind.** You can still see old code in history.

>       But if you really have a good reason to do it, always leave a comment explaining what it is and why it's there.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      If you really have a good reason to do it, always leave a comment explaining what it is and why it is there.
```

> - [ ] **Mark hacks as such.** If you have to leave behind something ugly, make sure to include a

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Mark hacks as such.** If you have to leave behind something in a suboptimal state, make sure to include a
```

Reviewer 4: or is it common to refer to something as "ugly"?

Author: I think it is, at least casually. "an ugly hack" and such. But I can change it.

    comment that explains why and in what circumstances it can be removed.
    Preferably link to an issue you reported upstream.
- [ ] **Avoid obvious comments.**
- [ ] **Do include comments when the reader may need extra context to understand the code.**

### Commits and PRs
- [ ] **Avoid hiding functional changes inside refactors.**
    E.g. when fixing a small bug, or changing user-visible behavior, put the change in a separate commit.
    Do not mix it with another change that renames things or reformats the code around, making the fix itself hard to identify.
- [ ] **Whenever possible, split off refactors or unrelated changes into separate PRs.**
    Smaller PRs are easier and quicker to review.
    Splitting off refactors helps focus on the main point of the PR.

> ### Common pitfalls

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Common Pitfalls
```

> These are covered by the coding style but come up so often that it's worth singling them out here:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following points are all covered by the coding style but come up so often that it is worth singling them out here:
```

> - [ ] **Always initialize value types in the definition,** even if you're sure you will assign them later.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Always initialize value types in the definition,** even if you are sure you will assign them later.
```

- [ ] **Use "east const" style.** I.e. `T const*`, not `const T *`.
- [ ] **Keep indentation consistent.** See our [`.editorconfig`](.editorconfig).
    - [ ] Tabs for C++. But use them for indentation only. Any whitespace later on the line must be spaces.
    - [ ] 4 spaces for most other file types.

> - [ ] **Use `auto` sparingly.** Only when the actual type is very long and complicated or when it's

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Use `auto` sparingly.** Only use it when the actual type is very long and complicated or when it is
```

    already used elsewhere in the same expression.
- [ ] **Indent braces and parentheses in a way that makes nesting clear.**
- [ ] **Use `using namespace` only in `.cpp` files.** Use it for `std` and our own modules.
    Avoid unnecessary `std::` prefix in `.cpp` files (except for very common names like `std::move`).
- [ ] **Use range-based loops and destructuring.**

> - [ ] **Include any headers you use directly,** even if they're implicitly included through other headers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Include any headers you use directly,** even if they are implicitly included through other headers.
```

## Documentation
- [ ] **Does the PR update relevant documentation?**

> ### Documentation style and good practices

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Documentation Style and Good Practices
```

- [ ] **Use double backticks in RST (``` ``x`` ```). Prefer single backticks in Markdown (`` `x` ``),**
    but note that double backticks are valid too and we use them in some cases for legacy reasons.
- [ ] **Always start a new sentence on a new line.**
    This way you don't have to rewrap the surrounding text when you rewrite the sentence.
    This also makes changes actually easier to spot in the diff.

## Testing

> ### What to test

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### What to Test
```

- [ ] **Is newly added code adequately covered by tests?** Have you considered all the important corner cases?

> - If it's a bugfix:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- If it is a bugfix:
```

    - [ ] **Is the (cleaned up) repro from the issue included as a test case?**
    - [ ] **Do tests cover not just the bug repro but also related cases that might be affected by a similar bug?**
- [ ] **Positive cases (code that compiles) should have a semantic test.**
- [ ] **Negative cases (code with compilation errors) should have a syntax test.**
- [ ] **Avoid mixing positive and negative cases in the same syntax test.**
    If the test produces an error, we stop at the analysis stage and we will not detect
    problems that only occur in code generation, optimizer or assembler.
    - [ ] If you have to do it, at least mark positive cases inside the file with a short comment.

>         - This way, when the test is updated, it's easier to verify that these cases still do not trigger an error.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - This way, when the test is updated, it is easier to verify that these cases still do not trigger an error.
```

- [ ] **Did you consider interactions with other language features?**
    - [ ] Are all types covered? Structs? Enums? Contracts/libraries/interfaces? User-defined value types?
        Value types: integers, fixed bytes, `address`, `address payable`, `bool`? Function pointers?
        Static and dynamic arrays? `string` and `bytes`? Mappings?
        Values of types that can't be named: literals, tuples, array slices, storage references?
    - [ ] If it accepts a function, does it also accept an event or an error? These have function types but are not functions.
    - [ ] If it affects free functions, what about internal library functions?
    - [ ] Bound library functions? Functions bound with `using for`?
    - [ ] Possible combinations of `storage`, `memory`, `calldata`, `immutable`, `constant`?
        Remember that internal functions can take `storage` arguments.
    - [ ] Does it work at construction time as well? What if you store it at construction time and read after deployment?
    - [ ] What about importing it from a different module or inheriting it?
    - [ ] Have you tested it with the ternary operator?

> ### Test style and good practices

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Test Style and Good Practices
```

> - [ ] **Make test case file names long and specific enough** that it's easy to guess what's inside.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Make test case file names long and specific enough** so that it is easy to guess what is inside.
```

    When checking if we have the case already covered the name is usually the only clue we see.
    - [ ] Place them in the right subdirectory.
    - [ ] **Avoid simply appending numbers to the name to distinguish similar cases.**
        Coming up with good names is hard but figuring out if any of hundreds of tests with names that
        match your search actually fits your case is even harder.

> - [ ] **Don't include version pragma and the SPDX comment in semantic and syntax test cases**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Do not include version pragma and the SPDX comment in semantic and syntax test cases**.
```

    In other test types include them if necessary to suppress warnings.
- [ ] **If you have to use a version pragma, avoid hard-coding version.** Use `pragma solidity *`.
- [ ] **Add `--pretty-print --pretty-json 4` to the `args` file of in command-line tests** to get
    readable, indented output.
- [ ] **When writing StandardJSON command-line tests, use `urls` instead of `content`** and put
    the Solidity or Yul code in a separate file.

## Compiler-specific
- [ ] **Are error messages sensible and understandable to users?**
- [ ] **Are error codes consistent?**
    - [ ] Avoid randomly changing or reassigning error codes.
    - [ ] Avoid defining separate codes for trivial variants of the same issue.
        Make it easy for tools to consistently refer to the same error with the same code.
- [ ] **Error messages should end with a full stop.**
- [ ] **Prefer Ranges v3 to Boost where possible.**

> ## Take a step back

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Take a Step Back
```

- [ ] **Do you fully understand what the PR does and why?**
- [ ] **Are you confident that the code works and does not break unrelated functionality?**
- [ ] **Is this a reasonable way to achieve the goal stated in the issue?**
- [ ] **Is the code simple?** Does the PR achieve its objective at the cost of significant
    complexity that may be a source of future bugs?
- [ ] **Is the code efficient?** Does the PR introduce any major performance bottlenecks?

> - [ ] **Does the PR introduce any breaking changes beyond what was agreed in the issue?**

Author: @leo I added this list of more general questions you should ask yourself before approving. What do you think? Would you add anything?

> ## Final checks before merging

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Final Checks Before Merging
```

        `must have eventually`, `must have`, `roadmap`) we have not yet decided whether to implement it.
    - If the issue has the `needs design` label, we have not yet decided how it should be implemented.
    - `good first issue candidate` means that the issue will potentially be a `good first issue`
        eventually but at the moment it is not yet ready to be worked on.
- [ ] **Is this a breaking change?** Breaking changes should be based on the `breaking` branch rather than on the `develop` branch.
- [ ] **Does the PR actually address the issue?**
    - [ ] Mention the issue number in the PR description.
        If the PR solves it completely, use the `Fixes #<issue number>` form so that Github will close the issue automatically.
    - [ ] Do not include the issue number in the PR title, branch name or commit description.
- [ ] When submitting a PR from a fork **create a branch and give it a descriptive name.**
    E.g. `fix-array-abi-encoding-bug`.
    Do not submit PRs directly from the `develop` branch of your fork since it makes rebasing and fetching new changes harder.
- [ ] **Does the PR depend on other PRs?**

>     - [ ] If the PR has dependencies, mention them in bold in the description.

Reviewer 5: Was boldness used much for this before?

Author: I used bold mostly because the explanations get in the way a bit and the list turned out to be more verbose that I'd like it to. So I bolded the main bit of each point so that if you went through the list once, next time you can just focus on those bits and mostly ignore the rest.

Any alternative ideas?

Reviewer 5: I referred to
> If the PR has dependencies, mention them **in bold in the description**

:)

Author: Haha, you got me.

I don't think we have such a rule but I think it's a good idea anyway to make it more visible. I used to make the bit about dependencies bold in my own PRs until we added `has dependencies` label. Now I usually don't but a contributor submitting a PR can't add a label so bolding it will help us spot that.

    - [ ] Avoid basing PRs from forks on branches other than `develop` or `breaking` because
        GitHub closes them when the base branch gets merged.
        Do this only for PRs created directly in the main repo.

## Coding Style and Good Practices
- [ ] Does the PR follow our [coding style](CODING_STYLE.md)?

### Reliability

> - [ ] **Use assertions liberally.** If you are certain your assumption will not be be broken, prove it with `solAssert()`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Use assertions liberally.** If you are certain your assumption will not be broken, prove it with `solAssert()`.
```

- [ ] **Mark hacks as such.** If you have to leave behind a temporary workaround, make
    sure to include a comment that explains why and in what circumstances it can be removed.
    Preferably link to an issue you reported upstream.
- [ ] **Avoid obvious comments.**
- [ ] **Do include comments when the reader may need extra context to understand the code.**

### Commits and PRs
- [ ] **Avoid hiding functional changes inside refactors.**
    E.g. when fixing a small bug, or changing user-visible behavior, put the change in a separate commit.
    Do not mix it with another change that renames things or reformats the code around, making the fix itself hard to identify.
- [ ] **Whenever possible, split off refactors or unrelated changes into separate PRs.**
    Smaller PRs are easier and quicker to review.
    Splitting off refactors helps focus on the main point of the PR.

### Common Pitfalls
The following points are all covered by the coding style but come up so often that it is worth singling them out here:
- [ ] **Always initialize value types in the definition,** even if you are sure you will assign them later.

> - [ ] **Use "east const" style.** I.e. `T const*`, not `const T *`.

Reviewer 7: Ah cool! Finally I learned the correct term for that :D

- [ ] **Keep indentation consistent.** See our [`.editorconfig`](.editorconfig).
    - [ ] Tabs for C++. But use them for indentation only. Any whitespace later on the line must consist of spaces.
    - [ ] 4 spaces for most other file types.
- [ ] **Use `auto` sparingly.** Only use it when the actual type is very long and complicated or when it is
    already used elsewhere in the same expression.
- [ ] **Indent braces and parentheses in a way that makes nesting clear.**
- [ ] **Use `using namespace` only in `.cpp` files.** Use it for `std` and our own modules.
    Avoid unnecessary `std::` prefix in `.cpp` files (except for `std::move`).
- [ ] **Use range-based loops and destructuring.**
- [ ] **Include any headers you use directly,** even if they are implicitly included through other headers.

## Documentation

> - [ ] **Does the PR update relevant documentation?**

Reviewer 7: ~I have the feeling that something is missing here.~ Ah ok, I understood now how that is meant 😅

Reviewer 7: Maybe it's better to just write `Update relevant documentation` here. I got somehow a bit confused reading that first.

Reviewer 7: I think the part that confused me here was that this item is written as a question.

Reviewer 3: Some of these as written as questions to aid the reviewer. Saying "add this or that" to the reviewer makes less sense.

### Documentation Style and Good Practices
- [ ] **Use double backticks in RST (``` ``x`` ```). Prefer single backticks in Markdown (`` `x` ``),**
    but note that double backticks are valid too and we use them in some cases for legacy reasons.
- [ ] **Always start a new sentence on a new line.**
    This way you do not have to rewrap the surrounding text when you rewrite the sentence.
    This also makes changes actually easier to spot in the diff.

## Testing

### What to Test

> - [ ] **Is newly added code adequately covered by tests?** Have you considered all the important corner cases?

Reviewer 7: I think we should not use any questions here. I would prefer `Write tests covering code of PR` or something like this.

Author: Looks like others agree that the question form is more appropriate for a review checklist so I'm going to keep it that way.

- If it is a bugfix:

>     - [ ] **Is the (cleaned up) repro from the issue included as a test case?**

Reviewer 7: `Add test that reproduce initial bug` or something like this?

Reviewer 8: I agree with being more assertive, it helps with clarity.

Author: How about this?
```markdown
    - [ ] **The PR must include tests that reproduce the bug.**
    - [ ] **Are there gaps in test coverage of the buggy feature?** Fill them by adding more tests.
    - [ ] **Try to break it.** Can you of any similar features that could also be buggy?
        Play with the repro and include prominent variants as separate test cases, even if they don't trigger a bug.
```

>     - [ ] **Do tests cover not just the bug repro but also related cases that might be affected by a similar bug?**

Reviewer 7: `Add related test cases that (initially) might trigger similar bugs`

Author: I adjusted this bit now. See https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/pull/13553#discussion_r982889291.

- [ ] **Positive cases (code that compiles) should have a semantic test.**
- [ ] **Negative cases (code with compilation errors) should have a syntax test.**
- [ ] **Avoid mixing positive and negative cases in the same syntax test.**
    If the test produces an error, we stop at the analysis stage and we will not detect
    problems that only occur in code generation, optimizer or assembler.
    - [ ] If you have to do it, at least mark positive cases inside the file with a short comment.
        - This way, when the test is updated, it is easier to verify that these cases still do not trigger an error.
- [ ] New syntax: **does it have an [`ASTJSON`](test/libsolidity/ASTJSON/) test?**
- [ ] New CLI or StandardJSON option:

>     - [ ] **Does it have a [command-line test](test/cmdlineTests/)?**

Reviewer 7: `Add command-line tests..`

Author: Same as https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/pull/13553#discussion_r982889983.

>     - [ ] **Is the option listed for every input mode in [`CommandLineParser` tests](test/solc/CommandLineParser.cpp)?**

Reviewer 7: `Add option to every input mode in CommandLineParser..`

Author: Same as https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/pull/13553#discussion_r982889983.
